[Born to Be Alive]
[Episode 18]
Where are you taking this?
Do you want me to drive?
We're going to the county town
and haul some stuff on the way.
You go on with your business.
Forget...
forget these two bags.
It's too much.
This is way too little.
It's not worth much.
Let's leave it at that for now.
Take them back.
Han.
Don't go.
Captain asked me to go.
Captain isn't here.
The fewer people involved in this,
the better.
Don't, Han.
Han.
Move.
What's there to fight over?
It's not like we're going on a picnic.
When did you get back?
I didn't even hear that.
Just now.
You're treating me like a child.
Well, you are.
How much can those yaks
of ours sell for now?
It's not the season yet.
Who sells them at a time like this?
We won't get
a good price at all.
Some official you are.
You've forgotten everything
about the grasslands.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Is the Mountain Patrol
facing some kind of
trouble again?
Do you know what the look in your eyes
reminded me of just now?
What?
It's the eyes of
a yak lying on the ice.
Exactly the same.
Tashi is back.
Hello, sir.
Hello.
Mom, I'm back.
Tashi, tie up the horse
and do your homework.
I have something to do.
Okay.
Here.
What do you think of this?
This is too old.
It's not worth much.
I have a few copper pots.
Let me show you.
Ms. Cairen.
If you sell the pots,
what will your family use?
When Deputy County Mayor Duo comes back,
he can only eat tsampa crumbs.
I still have
the furniture from my wedding.
It's all made of good wood.
But it's at the winter pasture.
Let's go take a look.
Ms. Cairen,
don't make this hard for me.
Furniture is the hardest to move.
And it's at the winter pasture.
Today,
even if I bring the horse cart,
I probably can't move it all in one trip.
Gotta go.
Wait.
Mom, what are you doing?
Stay out of this.
Look.
This is a pure
four-eye Dzi bead, an Earth-Gate type.
Among Dzi beads,
it's considered a treasure.
Take a look.
Mom, don't sell the Dzi bead.
Grandma left it to you.
Your father is in trouble now.
We have no choice.
Ms. Cairen.
This...
We're not selling it.
Give it to me.
No.
What are you doing?
-Miss.
-Give it to me.
What are you doing?
Alright, don't hit the child!
The horse.
Give it to me!
The horse... Is the horse for sale?
The horse.
Nice horse.
Have you decided
how much to sell it for?
This price. You can take it.
1,000. Deal.
It's 10,000.
Ms. Cairen.
Tashi really is a businessman.
He's got some nerve,
naming a price like that.
10,000?
How is it worth 10,000?
Jiongxi is the best horse.
It can take first place
in the race.
Has it ever taken first place?
Not yet.
But it's faster than the winner.
Okay.
We're not selling Jiongxi.
Fine, fine. Don't sell anything.
Today
is a wasted trip.
Gotta go.
Don't go.
I dare you to race me.
Come on, Jiongxi.
You must win today.
Don't embarrass me.
Hyah!
Tashi!
Come on, Tashi!
Hyah!
Come on!
Tashi, come on!
Tashi!
Tashi, you won!
You won!
Jiongxi!
Sister!
Sister.
How have you been?
Did you cause any trouble lately?
Even if you don't say it,
I know you did.
I haven't been fighting,
and I don't bring a knife
to school anymore.
I even helped Mom
keep the Dzi bead.
What about Jiongxi?
Jiongxi helped you win the race.
But it didn't know
that you wanted to sell it.
You lied to Jiongxi.
Sister!
Jiongxi!
Mom.
Mom!
Jiongxi!
Jiongxi, you're back.
Mom, am I dreaming?
What dream?
I just had a nightmare,
and now I'm having a sweet dream.
You silly child,
you must be half asleep.
Mom, why did you
bring Jiongxi back?
Because
it was homesick
and missed you.
Mom, where is your Dzi bead?
Let me see it.
It's here. It's here.
The Dzi bead is here.
It's here.
Mom.
Don't cry.
The Dzi bead isn't important.
It's okay.
Take it.
If you don't take it,
I sold the Dzi bead for nothing.
When we have money,
I'll buy you a better Dzi bead.
Tashi said the same thing.
Duojie, do you still want to be with me?
Of course.
Tomorrow,
go and redeem the Dzi bead.
I didn't marry you
because you're an official.
All these years,
I never transferred
my household registration.
Do you know why?
You like the yak
and sheep on the grassland.
You like riding horses.
And you hate living
in a single-story house.
Yes.
Wait until the Mountain Patrol...
Stop saying "wait."
I didn't marry you
just to wait
for a better life.
If you hadn't become Deputy County Mayor
and went back to being a herder,
I might be happier.
I don't know why.
Ever since you
became the Deputy County Mayor,
our family's just getting
poorer and poorer
If this goes on,
one day,
it will collapse.
Do you want me to give up
the mountain patrol?
Or
this is it for us.
Let's split up.
Tashi stays with me.
You don't need to worry.
Otherwise,
from today on,
I make the decisions
in this family,
and I handle the money.
Hurry up!
Captain, do you have the gun?
Yes.
Let me do it.
When did they
run away?
In the middle of the night.
We don't know
exactly when, either.
Why didn't you
watch Zhang Yang?
Why didn't you watch your son?
Tashi ran away at midnight,
and you didn't even know.
How can you blame us?
You shouldn't have
taught Zhang Yang to drive!
You agreed to it!
Why didn't you say something back then?
Get in the car!
Where did you get the car?
I borrowed it
from the animal husbandry station.
Ms. Cairen.
What are you doing?
I'm going to find Tashi.
Stop making things worse!
I promise you
I will bring Tashi back.
If you can't bring our son back,
don't bother coming back either.
Captain.
Let's go.
Get in.
[The 19th Patrol of the Mountain Patrol]
Have you checked the supplies?
What's missing?
A lot of buns and pickles are gone.
They also took a quilt,
a barrel of gasoline,
and even the blowtorch.
A barrel of gas
is enough for two days.
More than that.
They went to dig Cordyceps a few days ago
and herd sheep,
so they made some money.
They probably
used it all to buy gas.
By the looks of it,
they're not out for a joyride.
They couldn't wait any longer
and went in to find him themselves.
If that's the case,
they won't stay on the outskirts.
They'll go deeper.
Eagles don't follow yak trails.
Even the snow mountains
have meltwater routes.
They brought plenty of food.
And Zhang Yang has experience.
In the past, he always went into
the Uninhabited Zone
with others leading the way.
When he go there alone,
he almost died in there.
Captain.
Should we take the south route
or the north route?
The south route.
That looks
like our tent.
Drive over there.
Sit tight.
We are the Mountain Patrol!
People in the tent...
Hands in the air!
Come out!
It's me. It's me.
It's me.
Everyone inside, come out!
Kids, come out.
Hurry up!
Quickly.
Don't move.
Hands in the air.
No... no guns.
No guns.
Don't move.
You again.
Have you seen two kids
driving a pickup truck?
No.
Really?
Really.
What about them?
You kidnapped two kids this time?
Sir,
they're my relatives.
What are you doing here this time?
I didn't do anything.
We just got here.
Just got here?
You just got here,
and their face is already frostbitten?
Captain,
look.
Brine shrimp.
Our land is sandified.
We can't herd sheep anymore.
So I took the kids out
to catch brine shrimp.
Where's your harvesting permit?
Still processing again?
Who is he to you?
Uncle... Uncle.
Uncle.
Right.
What are you doing?
Turn around.
We are the Mountain Patrol.
Don't be afraid.
How long have you been here?
Three days.
Have you seen
two kids?
They're about your age.
One is this tall
with short hair.
The other one
is your height.
His hair is a bit longer than yours.
Think carefully.
They are driving
a blue pickup truck.
How many times have I told you?
Catching without a permit is illegal.
Since the kids are here,
I won't arrest you.
Don't let me
see you in Bolamula again.
Get in the car!
Let's go.
Fine. Come here.
You guys,
confiscate his gas cans.
Yes, sir.
At a time like this? Still fining?
Let's go.
Let's go. Let's go.
Hurry up!
We should've at least seized the gas.
If they still have gas,
they'll just go deeper.
It makes no difference.
If you seize his gas,
he'll just hit
the supply point
off the Qinghai-Tibet Highway,
buy more gas,
and come right back at it.
A tiger is hard to fight,
but flies are even harder to swat.
Where did they go?
We've come all this way
and haven't seen a single track.
What's wrong?
Just drive.
Bolamula
is not
what I pictured.
How is it different?
It's bigger
and even more beautiful
than I imagined.
The more beautiful a place is,
the more dangerous it becomes.
Do you know
what's most dangerous in Bolamula?
Of course I do.
Wild yaks.
Those beasts weigh over a thousand pounds,
way more dangerous than bears,
wolves,
or snow leopards.
Even with your arms spread out,
you're not as wide as its head.
When they charge,
the ground shakes.
One hit from them,
and it's like getting slammed by a truck.
Did your dad tell you that?
I don't need him to tell me.
I've seen them
in the pastoral areas.
Do you think
we'll run into a wild yak?
If I'd known,
I would've brought a gun.
A gun?
Let me tell you.
For sneaking out,
your dad would just beat you up.
But if you steal a gun,
you'll end up
in the Public Security Bureau.
Right.
There's a police officer
in the Mountain Patrol.
Truth is, wild yaks
aren't that dangerous.
As long as you
don't provoke them,
they definitely won't charge at you.
Then tell me,
what is the most dangerous?
Poachers?
Come on, tell me.
The weather.
The weather?
Just because it's sunny
doesn't mean it's safe.
The weather in Bolamula
can change in seconds.
One heavy snowfall
can turn this place
into a swamp.
People can get trapped out there for days,
unable to get out at all.
There's something even more dangerous
that I haven't told you.
What?
The thunderstorms.
Did you forget your meds?
No need.
Zhacuo.
Check here.
Where did you put your meds?
I said I don't need it.
Just drive.
He Qingyuan.
Search his bag.
Stop looking.
I left in a hurry and forgot them.
Look again.
Maybe there's some left.
Check inside.
It's a white bottle, right?
Right.
Check inside the bag.
Nothing?
No. I can't find it.
Check his pockets.
The pockets...
Stop looking!
Just drive the car!
What are you doing?
What's going on?
Everyone out.
Set up camp here and start a fire.
Who told you to camp?
Get in.
You need to eat something hot right now.
If you collapse,
you'll just cause
more trouble for everyone.
I'm fine.
Get in. Let's go!
I said I'm fine.
We must find them before dark.
We can't leave them
out here overnight.
What if we don't find them?
You said it yourself—
In the Uninhabited Zone,
you have to take care of yourself first.
I also made it clear
that in the Uninhabited Zone,
all actions follow orders!
It's my own body.
I know my own condition.
If you really knew,
that time last winter,
you wouldn't have
collapsed like that,
and we wouldn't have gotten separated.
You go drive!
Let's go.
Captain.
Just rest for a bit.
Are you not listening to me either?
Move!
Stop yelling!
You're the Captain!
If you collapse,
what am I supposed to do?
What are they supposed to do?
Now you're worried?
So what were you doing back then?
If you had kept a closer eye on Tashi,
he wouldn't have caused this mess.
Why are you glaring at me? Am I wrong?
If Dolma
saw you like this,
she'd scold you. too.
You...
Don't "you" me.
Listen to me.
Set up camp!
Captain.
Bai.
Talk properly.
Thanks.
It's hot.
Get some sleep.
When the rain stops,
I'll wake you up.
Back in 1979, during the snow disaster
in Namu Township,
I was in my twenties.
Even with ice on my arms,
watching steam rise off our skin,
I still felt
hot all over.
I'm not what I used to be.
It's summer,
but just one rain shower
makes me freeze like this.
Since Dolma left,
there's been no one
to talk back to me like this.
Tashi just gives me the cold shoulder
or runs off.
Maybe that's the difference
between a daughter and a son.
Tashi doesn't say much,
but he's sensitive at heart.
Really.
Adopted children
often grow up faster
than other kids.
Is that so?
You seem like a late bloomer to me.
That's because
my mom raised me well.
We just need parents'
positive encouragement.
In this regard,
you should learn from
Dr. Zhang.
Okay.
I'll humble myself and learn.
How did you know
Tashi was adopted?
Of course, I know everything.
You two are really alike.
Me? Like him?
I wouldn't be like him,
rushing into the mountains so recklessly.
I was talking about Dolma.
When she was little,
I often took her riding
on the grasslands
and told her stories
about the snow mountains.
Before she was five,
she could remember
the names of all the mountains.
She was amazing.
In the blink of an eye,
little Dolma grew up
and got into university.
That was the proudest
and happiest thing
of Cairen and me.
She majored in geology.
She said, "Our hometown
is so beautiful.
I want to understand it better."
Once she ran back from school,
shouting at me
excitedly.
She said, "Dad,
do you know?
Here in Mazhi,
there is a treasure land—
Bolamula.
There's gold underground.
So much of it,
you wouldn't dare imagine it
even in your dreams.
And there are many
other mineral resources.
I'm going with my classmates
into the mountains
to do exploration."
Back then,
Cairen was dead set against it.
She said the Uninhabited Zone
was too dangerous.
But seeing her
that excited,
I couldn't bear to dampen her spirits.
So I agreed behind Cairen's back.
But I never expected...
my daughter went into the mountains
and never came out.
What did she run into?
A blizzard.
Don't go over there yet.
So that's why you and Mom
were so dead set against
me going into the mountains.
Dolma is gone.
According to Tibetan tradition,
she will be reincarnated,
and we will definitely meet again.
I use this to comfort myself.
But the pain in my heart
is always there.
I don't know
when I'll find relief.
That night, you were knocked out
and unconscious for a long time.
Everyone thought
you'd never wake up.
Did you ever regret it?
No.
Then it's the same for Dolma.
We are all working hard
for the things
we want to do.
I believe
Dolma wouldn't blame you, either.
You know what?
In each and every one of you,
I can see traces of Dolma.
I want to take good care of you,
and I don't want you face danger
in the Uninhabited Zone.
So if anyone wants to leave,
I won't stop them.
But whenever you come back,
although I don't say it,
in my heart, I feel like
my Dolma has returned.
I'll always be here.
I won't leave.
After we get back,
I need to have a good talk
with this Shi Long.
Bai Ju is hard to deal with.
Are you crying?
Yeah.
Because of you.
Alright.
Get some sleep.
I'm afraid to sleep.
As soon as I close my eyes,
I see Tashi.
Although I know
Cairen was just speaking out of anger,
I was really a terrible dad.
You shouldn't
underestimate the kids.
I taught Zhang Yang how to drive.
He drives
just as well as I do.
He's sharp,
reacts fast,
has experience going into the mountains,
and is definitely well-prepared.
Putting everything else aside,
just the fact that
they went out to dig cordyceps,
and herded sheep for others,
to earn money for gas—
that alone tells us
this was
planned for a long time.
Don't worry too much.
Did you check Dolma's place?
They didn't go to Dolma's.
We took the south route this time—
Zhuoyuan Lake.
Moon Goddess Lake.
Pala Slope.
When I find them,
I'll teach them a lesson.
Something's wrong.
What's wrong?
We should take the north route.
This is already the third river.
We've driven so long today
and haven't seen
a single person.
To find fossickers,
you must stay near the river.
We don't have any other clues.
We can only use this clumsy method
and try our luck.
It's
the only option left.
Look.
Tomorrow,
we'll keep going in this direction.
There are two more rivers ahead.
Where did this come from?
Is it Captain Duojie's
or Bai's?
It's my sister's.
She studied geology at university.
People with a college education
really are something.
I also want to send my brother
to university.
After we find your brother,
why don't the three of us
all go to university?
I thought you didn't like school.
But I also want
to be someone capable.
You miss your sister?
No.
At her funeral,
I didn't shed a single tear.
Back then, she said
she was going to the Uninhabited Zone.
Dad was the only one in the family
who supported her.
Here, let me mark two locations for you.
Don't touch it!
I'll mark them myself.
You're quite like Captain Duojie—
Tough mouth, soft heart.
What do you mean?
I don't want to end up like him.
Why?
I quite like him.
Even though he always looks stern
and loves to scold people,
everything he does
is for our good.
If he were your dad,
you wouldn't like him.
There you go again.
I'm sorry.
I shouldn't have said that.
But every time,
you're the one who brings it up.
Every time you bring it up,
you get sad.
I'm not sad.
I was just thinking,
back then, if I ever came home late,
my dad would get so worried he'd beat me.
I know that.
You went to the neighboring village
to watch an opera.
You've told me that many times.
Captain Duojie must be worried sick.
This isn't the neighboring village.
This is Bolamula.
I've brought his only son
in here.
You keep talking about my dad.
It must be them. They've found us.
Come on. Get in!
Hurry up. Run!
Let's go back.
Your parents must be worried sick.
Why?
Aren't we looking
for your brother anymore?
We can look for him later.
I don't want Captain Duojie
and Bai to worry.
Let's go. Hurry.
I'm not going. No way.
We haven't found him.
Come with me.
I'm older than you.
You have to listen to me on this.
Let's go!
You have the nerve to say you're older?
You're giving up halfway. Coward!
I'm not going.
My dad will beat the hell out of me.
If he hits you, I'll stop—